# CS-100 Practice Test 139 Questions

---

## Q00X:

---

### Answer:

---

### References:

---

## Q004-008:

> Background:

CompanyA is a health services company with its main offices in Chicago and Nashville. The company provides physical therapy services to clients in their homes, typically following surgical procedures or as part of workers' compensation claims. Currently, it relies on branch offices in multiple locations to support therapists but it is gradually transitioning to a full mobile work environment. To support this effort, it has initiated a company-wide migration of all critical services to the cloud. This migration includes on- premises servers, user VMs, and the supporting management and monitoring appliances.

> Current Environment:

CompanyA has initiated its cloud migration and establishes an Azure Azure AD tenant. This Azure AD tenant is synchronized with Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS), which is maintained on on-premises domain controllers. As the migration progresses, additional Azure subscriptions will be created on an as-needed basis for each department. To facilitate their daily work, most employees have access to Microsoft 365 applications.
To support continued connectivity, basic Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) testing has been initiated for most categories of employees, such as account managers, support staff, and business, finance, and HR staff. Secure connectivity is supported via a Virtual Private Network (VPN) gateway for a limited set of users and devices. Additionally, a third-party firewall has been deployed to protect virtual server Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANS).
While they are on site with the clients, physical therapists use mobile devices with locally
stored tracking and monitoring data. This data is protected using proprietary storage
encryption, and each therapist is required to log on to their device using locally stored
credentials before accessing the data.

> Planned Changes:

As the cloud migration continues and expands, CompanyA plans to move all on-premises data to the cloud. The specific tasks planned for the next phase of the data migration include the following:
Client data:

- Protected Health Information (PHI) stored on mobile devices used by therapists will be moved to the cloud.

- Access to mobile devices while in the field should be restricted by geolocation.

- Data sharing between apps on the same device must be controlled.

- Compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and other regulations must be maintained regardless of data storage or usage locations.

As data and processing is moved to Azure, the VPN gateway must be configured to support secure P2S connections from devices that run a variety of desktop and mobile operating systems, including Windows, macOS, Android, and others. This will require defining which protocols are available depending on the device or devices being used.
Basic Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) has been completed and CompanyA plans to
expand its Azure Virtual Desktop footprint. During the pilot phase of testing, an employee installed an application that was packaged with a polymorphic virus. The malware moved laterally to other VDI instances and exfiltrated proprietary company data. This issue must be addressed before any additional VMs are deployed.
As part of the migration, server operating systems must be standardized. Servers must meet the following requirements:

- When new systems are provisioned, a secure baseline must be ensured.

- During testing of a base server virtual machine (VM), a quick vulnerability scan discovered that the system responds on non-standard ports. Such vulnerabilities must be addressed prior to widespread use.

- Management is concerned about Secure Shell (SSH) access to the server VMs and wants to disable direct inbound internet access for this protocol. Remote administrative access must be supported without exposing SSH using a public IP.

---

## Q008:

You need to recommend a solution for protecting SSH access to server VMs.
What should you include in your recommendation?

- Network security groups
- Azure Bastion
- Forced tunneling
- Just-in-time access

---

### Answer:
- Azure Bastion

You should recommend the deployment of Azure Bastion. Azure Bastion provides secure, Transport Layer Security protected (TLS-protected) remote access to your Azure virtual machines (VMs) from anywhere in the world. Bastion enables you to establish a secure connection to your VMs without having to deploy and manage a Virtual Private Network (VPN) or expose the VMs with public IP addresses. In this scenario, once Bastion is deployed, administrators can connect to the Bastion host using TLS, where they will have Secure Shell (SSH) connectivity to Azure VMs.
You should not recommend the deployment of network security groups (NSGs). An NSG is a virtual networking element that enables you to control the inbound and outbound traffic to resources in a virtual network using IP addresses, protocols, and ports. NSGs can be used to close off parts of your network to all traffic, or they can be used to allow specific types of traffic, while blocking all other traffic.
You should not recommend the deployment of forced tunneling. Forced tunneling allows you to control
how internet-bound traffic is routed from a VNet. For example, you could direct traffic to an Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) for deep packet inspection.
You should not recommend the deployment of just-in-time (JIT) access. JIT access requires the manual approval of every access attempt to specified ports on a VM. Each request comes with a limited lifetime, after which the ports are no longer reachable.

---

### References

[What is Azure Bastion?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bastion/bastion-overview)  
[Network security groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/network-security-groups-overview)  
[Azure Firewall forced tunneling](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/firewall/forced-tunneling)  
[Implement Just-in-time VM access](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/manage-security-operations-new/)  

---

## Q007:

You need to recommend a solution for addressing the server vulnerabilities.
What should you recommend?

- Installing a host-based intrusion detection system (HIDS)
- Deploying a network-based intrusion prevention system (NIPS) behind the server VLAN firewall
- Enabling data execution prevention on each server
- Uninstalling unused applications and services

---

### Answer:
- Uninstalling unused applications and services

You should recommend uninstalling unused applications and services. This is the best option for removing non-standard ports and reducing a server's attack surface. Among other sources, vulnerabilities are introduced by each application and service installed on a computer. Uninstalling these applications and services is known as system hardening.
You should not recommend installing a host-based intrusion detection system (HIDS). This will not eliminate unnecessary ports and services. A HIDS detects and alerts you of malicious activity.
You should not recommend deploying a network-based intrusion prevention system (NIPS) behind the server VLAN firewall. A NIPS typically sits in-line between trusted and untrusted networks and is designed to detect and prevent malicious network activity. In this scenario, the firewall should already be providing NIPS functionality.
You should not recommend enabling data execution prevention (DEP) on each server. This will not remove non-standard ports and unnecessary services. Data execution prevention marks certain areas in memory as non-executable, which prevents malicious code from running.

---

### References

[Review hardening recommendations](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/apply-security-baseline)  

[Security Control: Network Security](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/security/benchmark/azure/security-control-network-security)    

[What is Data Execution Prevention (DEP)?](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/what-is-data-execution-prevention-dep-60dabc2b-90db-45fc-9b18-512419135817)  

---

## Q006:

You need to recommend a solution that will mitigate the risks presented by Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI).
For each mitigation requirement below, which solution should you recommend? To answer, select the appropriate options in the answer area.

To allow only reputable apps to run : WDAC
To manage apps that only run on Windows 8.1 : AppLocker
To block.ps1, .vbs, and .js scripts : AppLocker or WDAC
To control which apps a user can use : AppLocker

---

### Answer:

You should use Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) to allow only reputable apps to run. WDAC uses policies to protect systems by controlling the applications, drivers, and scripts that are allowed to run on a system. Each policy is composed of rules that allow or deny behaviors, based on conditions you specify. WDAC can be configured to use Microsoft's Intelligent Security Graph (ISG) to identify applications with known bad, known good, or unknown reputations.
You can use AppLocker to manage apps that run on Windows 8. AppLocker was introduced in Windows 7. WDAC is only available on Windows 10 or later and Windows Server 2016 or later.
You can use AppLocker or WDAC to block .ps1, .vbs, and .js scripts. PowerShell, Visual Basic, and JavaScript files are considered executables and can cause considerable harm if allowed to run without restrictions.
You can use AppLocker to control which apps a user can use. This means that on shared devices, one user can be allowed to use an application, while any other shared users are prevented from using the application. WDAC policies apply to all users on a device.

---

### References

[Authorize reputable apps with the Intelligent Security Graph (ISG)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/design/use-wdac-with-intelligent-security-graph)  

[Requirements to use AppLocker](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/applocker/requirements-to-use-applocker)  

[Windows Defender Application Control and AppLocker Overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/wdac-and-applocker-overview)  

[Windows Defender Application Control and AppLocker feature availability](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/feature-availability)  

---

## Q005:

You need to specify which protocols are available for point-to-site (P2S) connections based on the operating system each client uses.
For each of the following statements, select Yes if the statement is true. 
Otherwise, select No.


Android, iOS, Windows, Linux, and macOS systems can connect using OpenVPN.
Planned Changes: Yes

Only Windows devices can connect using Secure Socket Tunneling Protocol (SSTP). : Yes

Only Windows and macOS devices can connect using Internet Key Exchange version 2 Virtual Private Network (IKEv2 VPN). : No

---

### Answer:

Android, iOS, Windows, Linux, and macOS systems can connect using OpenVPN. Azure supports point-to- site (P2S) connections via Virtual Private Network (VPN) gateways. Azure deploys VPN gateways as fully managed virtual machines (VMs) that can scale up or down based on client load. VPN gateways support P2S and site-to-site (S2S) connectivity. OpenVPN is an open-source project and offers the broadest client support for P2S connectivity.
Only Windows devices can connect using Secure Socket Tunneling Protocol (SSTP). SSTP is a type of VPN protocol that uses Transport Layer Security (TLS) for tunneling. It was introduced in Windows Vista Service Pack 1 and Windows Server 2008 and has been available in all subsequent versions of Windows.
As well as Windows and macOS devices, Linux, Android, and iOS devices can also connect using Internet Key Exchange version 2 (IKEv2) VPN. Azure VPN gateways do not support IKEv2 connections from Windows clients. The goal of IKE is to establish, negotiate, and agree upon the parameters of an authenticated and encrypted key-exchange for use in setting up a secure communications channel, such as that used in a VPN.

---

### References

[What is OpenVPN?](https://openvpn.net/faq/what-is-openvpn/)  
[About Point-to-Site VPN](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/point-to-site-about)    
[What is Azure VPN Gateway?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-about-vpngateways)  

---

## Q004:

You need to recommend a solution for managing client data stored on mobile devices.
Which two of the following should you include in your recommendation? Each correct answer presents part of the solution.

- Conditional Access policies
- App protection policies (APP)
- User risk polices
- User and Entity Behavior Analytics (UEBA)
- Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) policies

---

### Answer:
- Conditional Access policies
- App protection policies (APP)

You should recommend Conditional Access policies. Conditional Access is a security feature that helps you to control how users access your Azure resources. With conditional access, you can define the conditions under which users are allowed to access your resources and what actions they can take once they have accessed them. For example, you could allow users to access your resources only from certain locations or only during a certain timeframe.
You should also recommend app protection policies (APP). These are designed to protect apps and the data associated with those apps. This allows your organization's data, such as emails or files, to be protected when accessed from inside the app. APP can limit data sharing or prevent sharing altogether. Additionally, app-specific data can be encrypted. This way, if the device is lost or stolen, your organization's data remains safe.
You should not recommend User and Entity Behavior Analytics (UEBA). UEBA is a Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps feature that can be used to detect anomalous user behavior that may indicate malicious activity. For example, if a user normally logs on between the hours of 9:00 AM and 9:00 PM, and then suddenly logs on from a new Internet Protocol (IP) address at 3:00 AM, Defender for Cloud Apps can be configured to generate an alert.
You should not recommend Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) policies. WDAC allows you to create a Windows environment in which only authorized applications can run on client computers. This helps to protect your systems from malicious or unapproved software.
You should not recommend user risk policies. User risk policies are designed to identify and alert on, or prevent risky user behavior. For example, a user attempting authentication using an anonymous Virtual Private Network (VPN).

---

### References:

[Using the location condition in a Conditional Access policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/conditional-access/concept-assignment-network)  

[App protection policies overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/apps/app-protection-policy)    

[Anomaly detection policies in Defender for Cloud Apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/defender-cloud-apps/anomaly-detection-policy)    

[Understand Windows Defender Application Control policy design decisions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/design/understand-wdac-policy-design-decisions)    

[What are risk detections?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/id-protection/concept-identity-protection-risks)  

---

## Q001-003:

Your organization is part of a consortium in which each member actively performs threat hunting on their internal networks and systems.
You need to design a solution that allows cyber threat intelligence (CTI) feed to be shared between member threat intelligence platforms (TIPs) automatically. You must ensure that the solution employs industry- accepted formats and protocols and that it is supported by Microsoft Sentinel.


## Q003:

Solution: You define an alert action on the TIP source and specify Microsoft Sentinel as the target product. You provide an application ID and client secret to the TIP source.

Does this solution meet the goal?

---

### Answer: No

This solution does not meet the goal. This solution requires a directory ID before data can be pushed from the threat intelligence platform (TIP) source to Sentinel. This process uses the Microsoft Graph indicators Application Programming Interface (API).

---

## Q002:

Solution: 

You retrieve the Application Programming Interface (API) Root and Collection ID for the TIP server and configure a data connector in your target workspace.

Does this solution meet the goal?

---

### Answer: Yes

This solution meets the goal. Cyber threat intelligence (CTI) can be aggregated using an on-premises or cloud-hosted threat intelligence platform (TIP). This information can then be fed to Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) systems and applications using rules and filters you define. Microsoft Sentinel can also ingest CTI using this approach.
This solution allows Microsoft Sentinel to pull CTI from a Trusted Automated Exchange of Intelligence Information (TAXII) server. TAXII is an industry standard protocol that can be used to share CTI over Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS). TAXII clients can push and receive CTI from a centralized TAXII server.

---

## Q001:

Solution: 

You register an app and grant Application 
Programming Interface (API) permissions to the app in Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). You use the client secret provided as part of the registration process to add the TIP source.

Does this solution meet the goal?
Yes - No

---

### Answer: NO

This solution does not meet the goal. This solution completes some of the steps required to configure an inbound Sentinel Cyber threat intelligence (CTI) feed. However, in addition to providing the client secret, you must also provide an application ID and directory ID. This information can be collected as part of the app registration process in Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).

---

### References:

[Connect your threat intelligence platform to Microsoft Sentinel](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/connect-threat-intelligence-tip)  

[Connect Microsoft Sentinel to STIX/TAXII threat intelligence feeds](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/connect-threat-intelligence-taxii)    

[Work with threat indicators in Microsoft Sentinel](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/work-with-threat-indicators)  

---


